Let's go, same day.
Good, good.
Thank you.
It's beautiful.
How old is this?
How many years?
Twelve century.
Twelve century?
Yes, please.
Thank you.
So that's what I want to do.
So I want to do it.
I want to do it.
Oh, my God.
Thank you.
This is such a magnificent place.
The twelfth century?
That is the third century.
Then what's underneath is sixth.
And then what's underneath that is first.
How long has it been in Dominican?
Since we've had it since the 60s.
It's fine.
Shut this.
It's on the mat.
A little chip.
This is a solid story.
One has to pause for a minute before you can think about an interview.
This is quite an inspirational set of things.
But under ruthless power is the Roman house.
The library is in here.
We had a very interesting visit to the library this morning, and Dr. Weston, who was our host, spoke so highly of your contributions to making the Vatican collections available to scholars and to new generation of scholars, and of course this is one
aspect of what I would like to discuss with you in terms of, I think I explained in my book, in my letter to you, that this new book that my wife and I are working on together is an appreciation of libraries and scholarship that really is a book culture through history, but also some sort of, not necessarily illumination, but
a considered speculation of where we're going with the future, discuss bibliography in a way that the general reader might get something out of it, to talk about book culture, what is this whole concept of book culture and libraries and librarians and scholars, and you touch all of these things, all of these aspects of your career, and if we could just talk generally about your experiences and your thoughts, we would love to
hear your thoughts and use some of these in the sleep.
Do you want to let the bike tape record by the way?
You do mind.
Rather, I didn't record as well.
You record away.
Thank you.
You'll make it a lot easier for me.
Okay.
I'm sure we're running.
There it goes.
We're talking with Brother Boyle.
Um, maybe a good place to start is, um,
with something that we just discussed.
You are credited with opening the hold, the magnificent holdings of the Vatican Library to scholars.
I also read something that you wrote, I found it on the internet as a matter of fact, where you stated your belief that libraries should not be cemeteries where manuscripts and books are deposited and then forgotten.
I wonder if you could just comment a little bit on your thoughts on that.
Hmm.
On internet.
I don't remember, but anyway.
That's largely because there was a period between about 1750 and I suppose you can say 1870.
then the library, the Vatican Library was very little used and there was very little approach to it.
And a Spanish Jesuit called Juan Andres, A-N-D-R-E-S Juan Andres paid a visit and he said that the
library, everything was jealously guarded and that the place was more a cenotaph than a library, which reminded me of what Ammianus Marcellinus said about the year 380 of the libraries in Rome in the year
of the opening, when everything was breaking down and the libraries were, some closed, some were turned into theatres with hydraulic organs.
And the phrase he used was, enclosed with a sepulchral rite, like sepulchres.
So, that's what I was talking about, what is behind all of this.
That if we're not, the library is not open properly, not everything made available, people made welcome, people helped, then we might as well turn it all into a mausoleum and sort of wave in a steady mountain.
Do you believe that manuscripts, it has been said, for instance, about the study of Shakespeare or Dante, that every generation should have a new edition of Shakespeare or a new edition of Dante, that maybe every generation should have a new focus, a new look at the essential text.
Do you feel the same way about many of these manuscripts?
Do they require constant study and evaluation and re-evaluation?
Oh, yes.
because we all view things differently from generation to generation.
And the next generation after this one will probably be looking for things we haven't thought of.
And so there must be a constant review in that sense.
Oh look, you have 150,000 manuscripts in the Vatican Library, obviously.
You're not going to have these reviewed every generation, but certain areas will be reviewed.
And certain areas will interest people more than others, from generation to generation.
And that's the way things go on.
I mean, just in the Times Literary Supplement, this weekend I was reading about, what, five new editions of Shakespeare?
and the evaluation of each one of them, including what is called the Oxford Shakespeare, which, honestly, I don't know the Oxford text, which appears to be the one that's regarded most highly.
And now somebody has produced a new version based on the Oxford text.
So all of that sort of thing, since you did mention Shakespeare, is going on all the time, indeed.
And that is an ongoing process, an ongoing way.
That's normally how scholarship works.
Do you have any anxieties?
You have committed so much of your life to the study of texts, medieval texts.
There's all this talk about computerization.
People, it is feared, are steering away from textual scholarship.
Do you have any anxiety about whether or not there will be people, such as Bader Boyle, to follow in your footsteps to do this?
I don't have any anxiety.
I'm 74.
And I mean, whatever I've got left, it's not going to happen in my time.
What's going to happen afterwards, when we're all gone, is another thing.
And in the past few weeks I've read a few articles here and there on the future of libraries, including one very texty one in the Times Literary Supplement about two weeks ago.
Check it out.
Yes, on just running down the whole idea, or poo-pooing the whole idea that libraries are finished.
Libraries haven't finished and won't be finished.
I mean, I've got, I'm the end room down there.
And I've got chocolate.
I watched it, by the way.
Pretty stunning.
And, um, okay.
I can bring up the Vatican Library computer and I can consult the card catalog and stuff from the Bodleian Library.
It's very select.
At this stage it's no more than showing off what you can do.
That's great.
And the thing I was involved with IBM in
of digitalization.
Did they talk about that today?
Yes, I've read about it myself, actually.
Yes.
I mean, that is a wonderful thing, particularly because you can actually clean the texts where they've been bleeding in a manuscript, especially a paper manuscript where the ink bleeds through to the other side.
You can, by digitalization, you can wipe out all of that and get what's written.
where it's a blotch now, get it clear.
And it's wonderful.
Now, before I left the library, I think we had done something around 22,000 pages of manuscripts, I think.
And I, for the fun of it, would bring it up on the screen in my office.
I haven't bothered here.
I would find it extremely tiresome to be reading a manuscript that way.
I would download it and read it.
Yes.
I get the London Times on the computer in the morning, the Irish Times from Dublin, the local newspaper from my hometown where he's from too, Paul Lawler, who's the archaeologist here,
I flick my eye over them.
If there's anything interesting, I don't fit and read them.
I don't want to put it on the desk.
I mean, that business of the physical eye contact, which is combined with the physical manual contact, is I think absolutely essential.
And that anybody will get beyond this and have little sort of capsules that come out of the screen
and implant itself into our head or our ear or something.
And then it's all read for us.
Well, okay, if we want automatons around, that's fine.
And we can construct these to wash the dishes or something.
Or even to fetch books as they had in some places.
But I think we have to read them.
How essential do you feel it is to work with
with the actual document as opposed to facsimiles?
That's a very sensitive point.
Indeed, because... Where did I see it a few days ago?
But my own experience is enough.
Facsimiles are fine, just like photographs.
And I worked.
I worked first in the Bodleian Library doing my own work.
And when I left the Bodleian Library and came here to Rome in 1955, naturally I couldn't bring the manuscripts with me.
But all that I needed, I got photographs of.
And I remember going back, oh, five, six, seven years later, to the Bodleian Library, just to check something when I was in Oxford.
I'd forgotten what a manuscript looked like, and how different it was from the photograph.
And when I came here, just one straight example, when I came here in 1984 to the Vatican Library, my very first few weeks, I got a text in for a publication on which a scholar had been working for some years.
And I read the introduction.
The text is one manuscript only, it's not a hundred manuscripts, one manuscript.
I read the introduction and I was puzzled by something in it.
Because he had quoted a marginal note.
I said, this seems to go against everything that I ever heard of.
So I went downstairs and got the manuscript, brought it up, sat with it.
And I said, oh my god, he's been working from the microfilm.
And the microfilm doesn't get into what they call the gutter in here.
So you've got half the footnote, half the margin of note, which made perfect sense.
But it wasn't the sense when you read it.
They say always, oh, this will mean now that manuscripts will be handled less.
You can put them away, reverence them.
We've now got them in digitalized form, what have you.
I believe that when they start giving you smell and the feel of the greens of people who use the manuscripts over the years.
I made those manuscripts live, allied and living.
So, I mean, I think digitalization is absolutely wonderful, and I think the whole thing is wonderful, provided you put it in its place.
And they are living for you, is that correct?
Oh Lord, yes.
Yes, yes, I always used to joke about teaching.
And I would say, look, it's a dead animal and it loves being stroked.
That's for parchment.
Paper is a different thing.
I never liked the smell of paper, but I do like the feel of parchment.
And especially, people would say, but aren't you afraid to grease from your fingers and so on?
Just look at that, open the
See the grease down there around the sign?
That proves to me this dead animal was loved by somebody who read it.
If I find one that's virgin, it's a coffee table book.
So give it to the local dentist for his waiting book.
But on the other hand, do you think that maybe there are some, to continue the metaphor, of the virgin book that hasn't been touched,
that there are untapped treasures waiting to be discovered that have been overlooked?
Quite possibly.
Not, I would say, in the Vatican Library.
I would think that somewhere or other most people have seen most things.
But, see, a manuscript is rarely, well, very often a manuscript is not a single word.
It may have ten different treatises under the same cover.
And Jack Smith comes along.
He's interested just in those ten folios there.
He never looks at the rest.
So you can say, oh yes, that manuscript has been seen by Jack Smith in 1930.
So it's known already.
It's not a fatal error.
The other nine may be absolutely splendid things in which he wasn't in a slight bit.
Like a classical scholar will come along because here's fifteen folios of Seneca.
That's what he's working on.
But there may be a dozen Renaissance treatises in there, or a work of Thomas Aquinas, all under the same cover in what they call
composite volume or a volume with booklets.
And these booklets had even different centuries.
And some bright librarian didn't like them lying around.
So he said, let's put all the ones of the same size together.
Oh, more or less, that's what happens.
And that's part of the joy of the thing.
Have you had epiphanous moments like this in discovery where you found things like that?
Yes.
I was working on
The thing I was working on for my doctoral thesis at Oxford, and I had tracked down, I don't know, sixty, seventy manuscripts of what at the start we thought was one surviving manuscript.
By poking around I find sixty copies in existence.
Sixty.
And another, ah, another thirty or forty listed in medieval inventories, but not necessarily existing.
And one of these stout, rather ugly volumes.
I found a copy there.
I read it.
And I never, I never read only what I was interested in.
I'm a magpie in many ways.
A magpie.
I love it.
And I go around
picking and poking.
So I read through it, from beginning to end, and I found a curious little, what was it, eight, nine folios, on uneven parchment, like you know the way if you take an envelope and write on it, or
a bit of leather lying around in your right eye.
This is what happened.
So it began something like, here I am in prison.
So I found the man's name half-ways down.
But this man must be called Amori, A-M-A-U-R-Y, but written in the Latin form of Alma Luricus.
He's in prison somewhere.
Now I didn't know all that much about English history, and the name Amalwikis didn't mean anything to me, but there was a great old gentleman who was doing his biographical register at the University of Oxford, A. B. Endon.
Great man.
And Endon would always stop as he was passing by.
and saying, now what is it?
Because he maintained I'd never finished since I was a magpie.
And I said, Mr. Emden, does the name Amalricus mean anything to you?
It does to me, I said, but it's the philosopher Amalricus de Bebe, the beginning of the century.
I said, this is later.
And this Amalricus is in present.
He said, I only know of one other Amal Regis, the son of Simon de Montfort, the great Baron, son of Simon de Montfort, who was in prison for a while.
Sure, he thought he was going to be killed, and it's his last confession, it's his confession, done on the scraps of paper.
They just found the attachments that were there.
They got into, and not alone that, but then I discovered that the volume had been put together at the prison, because there was a monastery next door to it.
And the monks there had got this stuff.
Found it all in.
Had nothing to do with it.
And I wrote a long article on it.
And where did you publish that?
I'd love to check that out in Harvard.
Oh dear.
Do you remember the title of the piece?
Oh, it's called The Catena et Carcere, from Out of the Chains and Prison, because he uses that.
I am writing with my prison.
And this you discovered through serendipity.
Oh yeah.
Curiosity.
Ninety-five.
And how long had this been waiting to be discovered?
What was his period?
Twelve.
Seventy.
Seven.
I get grease pimples now.
Twelve?
Seven hundred years had been waiting to be discovered.
Twelve seventy-seven.
Let me see.
I don't remember the name of the book now.
This cover has been avoided in honor of a man that taught me.
You put your hands right on it.
I'm just going to take down the info, medieval learning and literature.
Well, there is discussion in the United States, and of course, I'm sure this does not apply... Oh, by the way, just before we go on, the business about the white clubs and the rest of it and me, that's fine for the margins.
I never allow anybody to put their hands...
from the text.
That's very important.
I would cut their heads off.
Oh, no, no, no.
Unless anyone would think that this is a terrible casual way.
No, I mean that manuscripts are there to be used, but not at least.
But very definitely to be used.
Oh, no.
Of course, this doesn't really apply to manuscripts, which are unique.
But there's discussion in many of the universities.
And I'm also paying a great deal of attention to university libraries, particularly in the United States, where if a book hasn't been used in three or four or five years, they're looking at it to decide whether or not it should be kept, whether or not it should be deaccessioned.
Again, I realize this is not manuscripts, but do you have any thoughts on that, on the thinking that goes into that kind of
Well, that is the generation syndrome.
That is because it isn't of interest to me or those in the last five years, therefore it's not of interest.
If libraries had worked on that principle, one like the Vatican Library,
We would be deprived of all sorts of stuff which probably is used once every hundred years and without which we'd be utterly lost.
So I do not subscribe in any way to anything like that.
Different thing if there are five copies of a textbook or something and the textbook has gone out of use.
Then at least
I was the two best copies, because they are witnesses to what was informing people in a certain period.
English grammar.
In September, I was out in San Francisco.
which, as you know, their public library, they just opened, and there was quite a controversy there.
So there was.
I read an article about it.
I knew the... Nicholson Baker, as a matter of fact.
I interviewed him, and he said that she performed at his wedding, and in fact said to say hello to you, by the way.
I must remember to say hello to you on behalf of Nicholson Baker, Lucy Gordon, who we were with this morning, and Michael Giacalone at the...
Italian Embassy in Washington.
Ah, yes, yes.
So I have to say hello to you on behalf of all of these people.
I've forgotten about him, yes.
Apparently his mother works here in Rome.
She does.
And I've been asked to remember them to you.
Fine, fine.
Now you were interested.
Yes, we were talking about San Francisco.
Well, the piece that you mentioned that Nicholson Baker wrote, the story actually goes beyond that.
When they opened the new library, they had
less shelf space in the new facility than they had in the older one.
And there were as many as 200,000 books, 200,000 books, which they very quietly sent off to a landfill, disposed of.
And what disturbs me is not only did they send off the books, but they didn't even record the titles of the books.
And I think it kind of feeds into what you were just saying, a witness to
Wouldn't it be interesting to know what books were of interest, even if you're getting rid of the books?
What was available to the people in San Francisco, the library there, from the years, shall we say, 1925 to 1990, or something like that.
And at least to ever retain the title.
At least to have retained the title.
And they were boasting quite a lot when they were doing
working on that new library about how to be all automated and what have you.
And I remember, you know, saying, well, automation is wonderful if you've got something in it, but just because you have computers around the place or terminals doesn't mean you have got all that you have is now available by title.
If they had gone and done that, put all the titles into the computer before they disposed of them.
I am not in any way blessing their
they're taking this stuff to the dump.
I, when I came here in 1955 to San Clemente, that library you saw downstairs, I rearranged it.
All just, I was doing my doctorate at the time, and to keep myself going mad, I used to go down and work in the library.
And just flipping around, I put in the railing cup.
one or two things like that done.
And under the flat roof here, I was poking around.
Night-time fashion again, just poking around.
And I came across 110 volumes that is rather nice finding.
And I said, damn it, this is nice finding at least.
The book doesn't look as any useful.
But it looked nice on the shelf, you know, as a bit of a show-off when we polished the banks.
So I got them out.
I got them out, found that the whole series was intact with four index volumes.
And it was a dictionary done
Well, an insectopedia rather than dictionary, done about 1840.
And I cleaned the bags just for the bundle and said, where will we put these now?
They're actually in the boss's room down at the end here.
He has them nicely there in a big bookcase.
And he hasn't the slightest interest, but he says, they do look nice.
But I mentioned it to a friend of mine one day, and there comes this curious encyclopedia called Encyclopedia Ecclesiastica.
And he said, you know, I said, look, I think it's Moroni, M-O-R-O-N-I,
I said, yes, come to the platform.
He said, I've been going over to the Vatican Library for years, consulting that.
Oh, it's worth watching, actually.
So for a long time it was there, but they've changed the whole place.
Now it's all been repainted, new lighting and so on.
And we had ready reference
three ready reference shelves there.
And this was in the centerpiece.
But the prior liked the bit of furniture and took the whole lot into his room.
And I'm glad they're in there, out of the way.
So there was a bit of serendipity again.
But throw them out, if you want to, but for heaven's sake at least,
I wonder, for a little bit of biographical background, were you drawn to scholarship before the priesthood or the priesthood?
I wonder if you could just give us a sense of the chronology there.
Well, apart from about three mad weeks when I wanted to be a meteorological officer at Shannon Airport when I was forty,
I wanted to be a priest and a teacher.
Okay, other things would have been fine, but I always had the teaching thing.
Research?
No.
I mean, I wouldn't have known quite what research was.
But after my first or second year in the Dominican Order, I began to poke around.
the whole medieval side.
What I really wanted to do was to be a biblical archaeologist.
And I read extremely widely in all sorts of themes relative to Egypt, the Middle East, to all the discoveries.
We did Hebrew, so I did a little bit of one or two other languages.
And then one day I came across an article in a French magazine, well, French magazine, French journal, it's heavy, and on, I've got no words about it.
So I wrote an article for the student journal at the time, on the Dominicans at the University of Paris or so, in its, when it got out.
the 1220s.
In the 1220s.
And I wrote it in Gaelic.
You wrote this in Gaelic?
Oh yes, it was my first sort of language.
And somebody or other said, so you want to be a biblical archaeologist?
Forget about it.
you should become a medievalist.
So they sent me over to the Dominicans of Oxford in 1947, 15 years ago.
And so that's where I got interested, began to work and so on.
But I taught paleography, the study of manuscripts.
I had nothing to do with libraries, our library economy.
in the wide world.
Yes, I fiddled with the library here, but I was lucky.
Until I came to the Vatican Library in 1984 and found that I was head of the School of Library Science.
I went about twice a year.
Bless them all.
And I generally encouraged them.
I gave them one or two lectures on telegraphy
keep my hand in.
But I knew nothing about library economy.
And I know less now.
But I did at least not discourage it.
When you say library economy, you mean... The running of the library.
Do you find them antithetical in terms of scholarship?
Oh, no, no, no.
But just managing a library has distinct from using a library.
I've heard it said, you know, tongue-in-cheek by some people that the greatest enemy of the scholar is the librarian.
Ah, well, that's a lot of tosh.
But it so happens that some librarians begin to regard the books after they've been around twenty years or something.
It's almost their own property.
And they develop kinky approaches like
a famous librarian whom I came to know later on, who in my youth was reputed in a certain Italian library, who hadn't a chance of getting me to see the manuscript.
Not a chance, unless you brought her a bokeh flower and then you got it.
So I used to, doing paleography and talking about
where manuscripts were, I said, the first thing you do is inform yourself.
Not about the opening hours.
Do that too.
Find out who is the librarian.
What is the librarian in your sink?
Does he or she like this?
I never thought of that one.
I never thought of that.
Because, you know, if this is a barrier, then it should be broken down.
But the... I've never found librarians anywhere that I've worked with, anywhere possessive in that sense, all being a barrier.
They get worried that you're going to damage them.
And that's fair enough.
But I'm afraid I survived for 13 years in the Vatican Library because I never allowed anything like that to worry me.
Ninety-nine percent of the readers in a specialized library like the Vatican Library are professors, professional researchers.
They're not blowouts.
That's right.
And they, if they can't trust them, say, let's get a staff and have
one person sits beside each reader.
And since we used to have about a heavy period in June, there'd be 201 or 202 readers.
It'd be in a bad way if you had to have 201 or 202 assistants sitting beside them.
Oh, I was in one library.
We'll not specify the city or the continent.
It took me a long time to get permission to see this manuscript.
Finally I got two people, one either side, and I was only allowed to look at what I had said in my letter I wanted to look at.
Yeah, I was studying a certain thing, it was there, but the concept that
In order to study that one, you had to give a description of the old manuscript.
That was for the prayers.
That's unbelievable.
So you could only look at that little fragment that you requested.
And then did you ask them if you could see something else?
I said no.
That's all you asked to see.
And the rationale behind this being that this was going to... Well, they were in a hurry.
Oh, that's... I have to say, let me also...
stress that this new book will be a pain in many respects to librarians.
I love librarians.
They're among the fewest people in the world who want you to borrow things.
Richard William Hunt was the manuscript librarian at the Bodleian in my time.
Justly famous, actually.
A wonderful man.
And he couldn't have been more helpful to lead
Every morning when he'd come in, he'd go around to all of us working there.
We were all graduate students doing theses and he'd go around to each one of us and say, any great discovery?
He'd say, why are you using that manuscript?
On one occasion he said to me, I said, I found it's got the stuff I'm working on.
He said, how can you read it?
What is it?
He said, it's bound too tightly.
Can't read that.
It needed binding.
So he just assured the fact that it would be re-bound.
It should never have been bound like that.
It's a recent binding.
I mean, recent in the last 100 years.
It wasn't a contemporary one.
Did you find sometimes that some of the most important discoveries are on the marginalia, are on the annotations?
Oh, yes, yes.
This manuscript of St.
Thomas Aquinas, of his second commentary on the sentences of Peter Lombard, which had been discovered, oh, maybe 30, 40 years ago, and rejected by
the people working on the critical edition of St.
Thomas, of which I'm now president.
I want to talk about that, by the way, William.
Which is a funny turnaround.
And I read the article rejecting this.
I couldn't have cared less about being rejected.
But I had to come back to it twice in order to make sure my footnote was right.
They were just a footman saying, this is not so common.
And on each occasion I came away, I returned it to the library shelf uneasily.
There's something wrong in here.
And then I was in the library, my office was over there, so I had to cross the canopy.
The third time I was walking away from the library and I said, he's got it back to front.
got it back to France.
I went back and read his article again.
And I said, yeah, he's got it back to France.
Then, the following summer, I was in Oxford for a conference.
And I nipped away from the conference to the Bodleian Library to see this manuscript.
And
looked at it, went through, and found a margin which he had never quoted.
The man who had done the article.
And I said, good heavens, he never saw the manuscript.
He was working from a microphone.
And it said, on this point, Brother Thomas says,
that, okay, they hold this at Paris at the moment, but he personally doesn't agree.
That goes back to the earlier discussion about the authentic document as opposed to the facsimile.
Because whoever, you know, a man who's microfilming is a cameraman, photographer.
He doesn't know what you want.
He thinks all you need is the text, not the whole opening as we call it.
So none of the marginal notes were included, only the text.
And it made all the difference in the world.
So it was St.
Thomas.
It was in your view.
Yes, yes.
I now have the text ready for publication.
Nobody can stop me now, you see, since I'm president of this.
Because, oh, the skepticism when I did this in 1918.
One, I think it was.
Oh, the skepticism.
The journal I wanted to be published in said, no, no, I mean, you're going against that great man, et cetera, et cetera.
So they sent it to the great man.
And the great man wrote back and said, I miss the boat.
That took some courage.
Oh, it took some courage.
He was a Frenchman too, and they're not very keen at missing boats.
And I met him later, and he put his head down and said,
I should be really not looking at the face.
Could you tell us a little bit about the Aquinas project?
Well, at the moment, you know, I am not that well up in it, because I haven't really got my teeth into it yet.
But they've been going, you see, what, 1881?
So that's a hundred and something years.
And the rationale behind it is, this is something that could take 200 years, isn't it?
Yes, God knows.
I'm not going to hang around that long.
But 1881, we're already 116 years into it.
I know, I know.
And the editor has died in an odorous sanctity.
And some have spent all their lives at it.
There are those, remember it's generally anonymous work.
They work in teams.
And so there isn't even the satisfaction of saying such and such a work of St.
Thomas critically edited by Jack Smith.
It's critically edited by a committee of the Dominicans.
Now and then, in the past 10 or 15 years, they have had more sense
the introduction is written by the chief editor, whose science is written, which is only fair.
But they began off with the Sunnah of St.
Thomas, which they completed in record time, about seven or eight years, by using
a number of manuscripts but nothing compared to what there are.
So they now, unfortunately, this will be up to me, we have a meeting on Wednesday about this, to redo the Summa Sentons.
I want to be, I really want this proved to me that it needs redoing when in fact we have not yet
tackled the ones that haven't been done.
I mean a hundred years and people have been basing themselves on this text which now is defective they say.
So do we have to correct all the theology?
I want this proved to me first that this is essential.
Here I just say look at all the scholarship in the last hundred years based upon this critical edition.
If it ain't critical, who's kidding whom?
Does this suggest that it's possibly wasted scholarship?
I personally think that the changes are so many, I would say this privately,
I don't think it's justified at the moment.
This is one thing I'm asking for.
I want chapter and verse.
Show me where it's wrong.
Show me not just where it's wrong, but where it has misled people.
It is just a question.
The sentence is slightly wrong, but it says they're forgettable.
But there are a number of volumes of works still not critically edited.
I've got two in my room now, which have been a long time in coming, and it's God sent to heaven.
But even these now... I took the notes, yes.
Which piece, I'm sorry, in the New Yorker?
A piece in the New Yorker about, you know, throwing out card indexes.
Oh, yes, that was Nick Baker's piece as well.
He did two pieces in the New Yorker.
That was the first one.
That's a good fact.
Anthony Grafton has a new book coming out from Harvard Press.
It's just being published right now.
Anthony's an extraordinary man.
I'm going to do an interview with him.
He's an extraordinary man.
This is the preface volume, you see?
With all the listing of all the manuscripts and their description,
So you're coming rather new to Aquinas, is what you're saying?
Not to Aquinas, but to the critical edition.
The introduction volume, and then the text.
Now that took years... That's the 25th volume, is that right?
Yes.
So how many do they estimate?
Probably another ten, I would say.
So it's in the home stretch.
Oh, it's in the home stretch.
I mean, I won't finish it off.
Even if I were to live for twenty years, I had no intention of doing it.
Write down this information, please.
But you will find them in most, as they say, in most reputable life.
Indeed.
Well, we're fortunate.
We don't live far from Boston.
I read at the Widener Library of Boston and all of them, so there's no problem finding any of them.
You'll find it at St.
John's Seminary.
That's right.
Where Larry, Larry, Walsh is it?
Walsh.
I think so.
Tomorrow we're going to Monte Cassino, of course.
Is it Don Faustino who's looking after you?
Lucy Gordon has arranged this and she's taking us down.
Of course I wanted to discuss in this book
One of the reasons for going here is to just discuss for readers how important the rule of Benedict is.
What would the history of the world, in terms of culture and literature, be without that rule?
I wonder how often people pause to think about that.
Is that something that people would?
Now and then they would.
There is a volume
published in England, maybe 1952 or something, with articles precisely on the place of monasticism in passing on culture.
Now that's in my view,
Where is it?
I can find it.
There was a popular book written a few years ago, How the Irish Saved Civilization by Tom Cahill.
Curiously, I laughed when I saw the title, and it reminded me of that, that volume that was about 20 years ago called
The Irish book.
Sex.
I have that book.
I was a book review editor at the time when I came in for St.
Patrick's Day.
Do you remember the ones all blank pages?
All blank pages.
And I thought that, you know, when I saw this, that somebody's humming us on again, you see?
Do you remember what the title of it was?
I remember it was Brace Yourself, Bridget.
Something like that.
And so...
I happened one day here, having coffee at lunch, and I said, a crazy book came out some time ago.
I said, no, I haven't.
Well, I lent it to you.
And it's done with great grace and humor.